MARISHA: (laughs) Man, I don't know why we keep
trying really hard.
MATT: We'll keep trying. We'll make it work.
MARISHA: We're trying so hard, man, to make this
work!
MATT: I know!
MARISHA: Trying so hard. All right, guys, this is
going to be our last attempt, so if this fails
just know that we love you and we tried.
MATT: And wish you a very happy Thanksgiving.
MARISHA: And we wish you a happy Thanksgiving.
MATT: If this fails, it falls through.
MARISHA: Yeah, service is quite spotty and we're
slowly leaving civilization even more as we speak.
MATT: We keep starting when we get to cities and
then pushing into dark areas with no lights.
MARISHA: And we lose signal. But yes. Happy
Thanksgiving and we can't wait-- it's weird that
tomorrow's Thursday and there's no game.
MATT: I know, especially where we left it off.
Ugh!
MARISHA: It's become so ingrained into our system.
Although, in a weird way, it's almost like this
week, time has been different. I feel like,
normally, the weeks feel so long getting to
Thursday, but now I think, because I was
anticipating it being a two-week break, I feel
like this is more of a-- this feels like a halfway
point. I don't know. It's weird to describe, but
yes.
MATT: I concur.
MARISHA: You concur.
MATT: Yes.
MARISHA: It's good. It's weird. We miss it. Yeah,
I think they are doing a rebroadcast tomorrow,
actually. So if you guys want to catch up on
Critical Role, or have nothing better to do, or--
does football still happen on Thanksgiving Day?
MATT: I'm not the person to ask this.
MARISHA: If you don't want to watch football, you
can watch Critical Role. Which would be kind of
a-- what?
MATT: I'm sorry, I have to enjoy the fact that you
turned to me to ask me a football question.
That's delightful.
MARISHA: Well, I don't know! Never mind. Three
games. Yes, there's a lot of football happening
tomorrow. There's always football.
MATT: You guys can go play your "footsballs," and
your outdoor things.
MARISHA: How about that comic this week, you guys?
How about that comic that came out today? Am I
right?
MATT: I need to read it. I haven't.
MARISHA: I am so in love with it. I'm not going to
lie. Out of all the ones that Taliesin and I have
written for this arc that are coming up, this one
I was the most excited for and she did not
disappoint. This is definitely one of my favorite
ones that we came up with and she did a really
good job on it. I was happy with it.
MATT: You should be. You're good at writing.
MARISHA: I was happy with it. I know. I know that
the comic is really short, but we are making do
with the budget that we got. So that is what we
were able to get approved in advance.
MATT: That time that the artists have to work on
it, too, for that much turn around.
MARISHA: The time and--
MATT: If this goes well, we'd like to do more with
it and actually produce. I mean, pie in the sky,
I'd love to be able to put together an actual
comic based on previous exploits of Vox Machina
and stuff. That'd be a really fun thing, but it's
also one of those things that is time-consuming
and expensive.
MARISHA: That's why we've been pushing people so
hard to go look at it because as long as people go
look at the comic, we can possibly get more comic.
Yeah, the reason why it's so short is because
that's what we've got to work with right now.
Yeah, for the people who are asking, go to
geekandsundry.com and we now have a weekly
Critical Role/Vox Machina comic strip. Definitely
go check it out.
MATT: They're bite size, four panels each week.
MARISHA: Yeah, a comic strip! Like Family Ties or
Marmaduke.
MATT: Family Ties?
MARISHA: Wait, what did I say? Family Circus is
what I meant!
MATT: Family Ties was the best comic strip I've
ever seen, I don't know about you guys. The
crossover with the Avengers was pretty intense,
too. Good to see Michael J. Fox in fighting form.
MARISHA: (laughs) Yeah. Exactly.
MATT: I'm glad we're maintaining signal. This is
nuts.
MARISHA: People are saying, someone said, "You
voiced Chrom in Fire Emblem?"
MATT: Fire Emblem: Awakening, yes.
MARISHA: They said, "I thought that was Crispin!"
MATT: No, Crispin voices all the other cooler
characters.
MARISHA: Yeah. Crispin's everyone else. But he's
Chrom.
MATT: Thank you for being the wind at my back and
the sword at my side.
MARISHA: Aw. I have a bird sitter for Dagon, don't
worry. Dagon's: one, not in the car, and two, not
abandoned or left alone.
MATT: Yeah, no. Dagon doesn't do well with driving
at all.
MARISHA: Dagon gets carsick.
MATT: I know! I didn't know birds could do that.
MARISHA: Yeah, birds get carsick. I don't know if
you guys know that, but birds get carsick.
MATT: She starts hyperventilating, she starts
throwing up and we're like, "No!"
MARISHA: You wouldn't think, but birds get
carsick. Their little equilibrium in their brain,
they do not like the driving. It gets weird for
them. It's interesting.
MATT: We have to put her in a little box and cover
her up when we take her to the vet.
MARISHA: We have to make it dark and I have to be
a shock system and be like, "Don't look outside!"
People who get sea sickness, it's kind of like
that. Don't look at the horizon, you'll know
you're driving and then you'll get sick!
MATT: Oh! I've had a few questions about this I
wanted to alert you guys to. I mentioned the
updates to the Witch Hunter class. I'm working
on those, a lot of adjustments. Inspiration. A lot
of it stemmed from the fact that the character
class was sort of inspired through the preparation
for the Vin Diesel game, but I had to tailor it to
what little information I had on his character.
The title "Witch Hunter" was to tie into the
movie, but it was also a misnomer as the class
didn't really have much to do with witches, that
was just one of its quarries. Some of the
abilities were created based on what little
information I had about the trailers of the film.
Once that film, that whole promo event left, I
wanted to recreate the class in a way that was
wholly my own and wasn't quite so directly
affiliated to that film and that whole event. I
changed the name, currently going with the theme
of calling it a Blood Hunter. The idea being that
it's essentially a warrior or a martial class that
is so in-tune with its own physical vitality, its
life force that it sacrifices and utilizes it. Its
Blood Rite is now called the Crimson Rite. It gets
Blood Curses, which you can gain more as it levels
up and those allow it to curse and manipulate
enemies' psychologies in small ways, as well as
their own. Imagine a martial class Blood Magus, if
you will. So instead of being all magic-based,
it's about enhancing and altering, martial
prowess, and small manipulations of the enemy. The
Blood Hunter, I'm calling it, should have some
updates coming soon. I'm getting some great notes
back. I'm actually getting some notes back from
some folks at Wizards about it. That way when I
put it out, I can have it pretty well-balanced
based on community feedback and official company
feedback and I can feel a little more comfortable
about throwing out in the ether to be torn apart
by the sharks. Hopefully, I'll have that for you
guys soon in some way, shape, or form. It's been a
lot of fun to--
MARISHA: Yeah, retool!
MATT: Homebrew, man. It's a process.
MARISHA: Yeah, he was saying "Blood Hunter," by
the way, for anyone, "Blood Hunter," not void
hunter or demon hunter. Blood Hunter.
MATT: Blood Hunter, as the essence of their
capabilities are through forbidden blood magic and
the ability to sacrifice their own vitality or
manipulate their own vitality to enhance their
abilities. The blood is the very central theme to
a lot of their capabilities and magical prowess as
part of their martial enhancement. That's the
theme! Other than that, there are still creature
hunters, they're still very much against demons,
fey, dark fey, against ghosts and undead and stuff
like that. Those things still align there. But the
core of that class is now based around
manipulation of its own vitality. There you go!
MARISHA: Word! I wasn't looking at questions
because I was trying to get good camera angles of
your face.
MATT: That's an impossible attempt.
MARISHA: That's not true!
MATT: I appreciate your candor.
MARISHA: Someone else had a good question right
before and I was like, "Ooh that's a good
"question! I'm going to have to remember that one."
And then I forgot about it.
MATT: Oh no! No!
MARISHA: I don't know.
MATT: Whoever it was, if you had a good question,
ask it again!
MARISHA: If you had a good question, just ask it
again, person who had a good question!
MATT: Marisha's filtering the chat so I'm able to
drive.
MARISHA: Yeah. Ooh! That's actually a good
question. Advice for making a tiefling cleric.
MATT: Ooh! There's some great domains there.
There's the trickery domain, there's the war
domain, and it depends on the theme of-- if you
want to truly embrace your demonic heritage or if
you shun it entirely and your pious development as
a character is more to try and make recompense for
what you deem yourself as a cursed bloodline.
MARISHA: Generally, really, there's no wrong
answers.
MATT: No.
MARISHA: People need to just know that when
building a character, there's no wrong answers as
long as you're able to justify it.
MATT: Yeah. Find a cool story aspect, a nice hook,
and a reason for why you built a character the way
you did. No matter how weird they are. People
complain that multiclassing isn't as powerful in
the long run as sticking to a single class. From a
numbers standpoint, maybe, to a negligible degree,
really, but it's all about what's making what's
interesting to you to play in a game. If you have
a campaign that's in the min/maxing dungeon crawl,
make something that works in that degree.
MARISHA: I really like what Taliesin had to say
about it in his interview that he did, the written
interviews that we did on Geek & Sundry. He said
his method for making characters is he always
tries to make someone he'd want to hang out with
because, especially if you're starting a
long-running campaign, you are going to be with
this person for a very long time. So make someone
you'd want to hang out with. I think that's a
really good tip.
MATT: You could make a punk or an asshole to a
degree, as long as there are some redeeming
quality to them.
MARISHA: Oh, I have a lot of friends who are
assholes!
MATT: Because the rest of your party has to hang
out with you for that time as well.
MARISHA: Right!
MATT: Unless you all agree that you want to make a
party of terrible people and do a short-run evil
campaign, maybe.
MARISHA: Scanlan is kind of a scummy douchebag,
but--
MATT: A loveable, scummy douchebag!
MARISHA: He's a loveable, scummy douchebag!
MATT: I have many friends that fall in that same
category that-- I shake my head at them quite
often, but more often than not, you know there's a
good core there, there's a good person. They just
have very curious methods.
MARISHA: Yeah! Everyone has their vices.
MATT: Mind you, I don't have any friends who
crapped on beds or anything. That I know of.
MARISHA: That you know of.
MATT: That I know of.
MARISHA: That you know of. Totally. Yeah. Druid
second place? Druid second place to who? Nobody.
That's what I say.
MATT: Oh snap.
MARISHA: What what! Those are fighting words. Once
again, guys, I apologize if we lose service; we're
driving in the desert. I'm looking at my phone for
service. So if we lose service here soon, happy
Thanksgiving and we love you guys so much and
we'll be back soonish. "What's the deal for this
"month's Critmas?" It's happening on not this next
episode, but the episode after.
MATT: The first Thursday of the month. We were
going to try to do--
MARISHA: But we're pushing it this week because
first Thursday of the month is next Thursday.
MATT: Right. Not this one, not next one. Yeah, so
it'd be two. We're pushing it back to the second
week this month because we can't do the Thursday
before Critmas.
MARISHA: Christmas.
MATT: We're not playing Christmas Eve and then we
can't do the week before because that's also the
opening night of Star Wars and pretty much the
entire crew, as well as most everyone we know will
be out that night to see that. So we're going to
play, we're going to end as close to 10:00 as we
can, and then let everyone go early. So we're
going to be doing our Critmas a week later than we
normally would be, so it'll be the second Thursday
of December is the current plan.
MARISHA: Be looking out for the website because
I'm going to be putting out a Critter's Guide for
Critmas here very soon. So yes, to help guide
people because we've gotten a lot of questions on
what to do and what to get. One of the things
that's going to be talked about a lot in there is
all of the charities that we all really like
supporting because as much as we like stuff, we
really like it when people give to other
charities, especially give to people in our name.
People have been doing that more and more and we
really like that.
MATT: It's a strange thing because on one hand,
it's a really wonderful thing that you guys share
with us your passion and your interest by sending
things, which we never expected, asked for, or
thought would happen. It's a really cool
experience! At the same time, it's also very
strange to be receiving so many gifts to an extent
because we're just people. We would like to
redirect some of that positivity towards great
causes and stuff, as opposed to having to buy a
lot of things necessarily. Crafts and things you
want to make, music or art, all of that stuff is
fantastic. Another great avenue that we really
appreciate is giving to charities and supporting,
Like the animal rescue charities are great. The
person that adopted that bear for Laura was great.
MARISHA: Someone adopted a bear and then we
recently-- we haven't talked about it on-stream
yet, but we got somebody who donated a bunch of
seeds in our name. Bought seeds for farmers. It's
a charity, a non-profit organization that buys
seeds and crops for farmers who might have lost
their crops for the year due to drought or plant
disease or extreme weather, or anything that can
happen to these poor farmers that can completely
ruin their year if they lose their entire crop. So
this is an organization that will donate fresh
crops and fresh seeds to farmers who might have
lost their crops. Coming from a farming family--
MATT: And a druid.
MARISHA: And a druid, that definitely speaks to me
because I know how much that sucks and I know what
it's like when your family--
MATT: Due to blight.
MARISHA: --loses-- yes! Due to blight. Exactly.
It's awful when you lose your crops due to blight
and the poor farmers in our country-- poor farmers
everywhere are not appreciated enough.
MATT: Think of Whitestone.
MARISHA: Look at Whitestone! Yeah! Especially
considering that farmers keep us alive. So farmers
are awesome. Stuff like that is a great cause to
donate to that we always appreciate. Oh, that's
awesome! Tuk said there's somebody-- a local
charity that buys Christmas trees for families.
Correct me if I'm wrong on that. The chat just
went really fast.
MATT: That's really cool!
MARISHA: That's really rad. Yeah. I like that.
We've really enjoyed giving back to 826 and all that
stuff has been so rewarding. All the Extra Life
campaign, going and visiting the Children's
Hospital is amazing. It's been so great to
actually give back in a way that-- you sometimes
feel like you don't necessarily have the power to
all the time in your day to day life, so this--
MATT: We all empower each other, that's what so
crazy about this community. Everyone supports each
other to such an amazing degree. We're just a
channel for some of that positivity.
MARISHA: That's what it was! That's what the
person was saying earlier! The really good
question that I remembered! Oh god! Kit Buss and
Rat Queens, because that is public because someone
brought that up in the announcements. Speaking of
this whole crazy escapade doing amazing things for
people. Yeah! Kit got contacted by Kurtis Wiebe
who is the writer and creator of Rat Queens, whom
I know you guys have Laura and all the rest of us
talk about it on the show all the time. Kit is
actually going to be doing the art for a Rat
Queens webcomic! Which is fucking awesome and
amazing. Yeah! I'm so glad because she's earned
it, beyond earned it.
MATT: It's so cool when good people get together
and get to do good things.
MARISHA: And all because of Critical Role! It's
crazy! Because of our dumb D&D game!
MATT: Because of her amazing talent, but--
MARISHA: That connection happened because--
MATT: It's become this weird hub for a lot of
things that are really cool.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's awesome. "Yay for Kit's fake
accent!" I know. Maybe one day she'll learn how to
do a proper British accent like Liam. Maybe, or
you. Yeah.
MATT: No pressure having a real Brit all of a
sudden play D&D with you and all of your
fake-accented characters.
MARISHA: And then she comes on and busts out a
Russian accent. What?! She's fucking awesome.
Let's see, what else do we have? Questions. "Liam
does the best Grog." People doing their Grog
impressions has become a new thing. It's become a
new thing. Yeah. Oh no! It looks maybe--